>> Kyle Simpson: This last discussion
that we're going to have here.
Then we're going to have another exercise.
This last discussion in this
module is called closure.
Closure is one of those magical concepts
that you may feel really confident about,
or you may feel like, man I have never
been able to understand closure.
Antidotely, whenI was learning C
programming way back in the days, one of
their earliest languages I learned, and
I was actually not even in college yet.
So I'm in high school, little dumb kid,
and I'm trying to learn this stuff and
we didn't have Google and
the way we learn now.
So it was like trying to find
used programming books at the book
store to try to learn stuff.
And when I was trying to
learn C programming without
the benefit of the internet, and
this was like early to mid 90's,
without the benefit of much of the
internet, what I would run across in books
is I would run across the discussion
in the C language of pointers.
And it was always, every time I
ran across a discussion of it or
if I found somebody talking about it or
heard somebody talking or
whatever, I would always get
this sense that pointers.
Or like this magical level of
enlightenment that you had to get to,
you could write the C language
without understanding pointers.
And you could do a certain amount,
but you could not really fully
experience all that the C language had to
offer, until you understood the pointers.
For a long time I didn't get it and
always felt like, One of these days that
lightbulb is going to go on and I'm
going to get pointers, and then it did.
And truly and honestly it was that
lightbulb moment where I was like,
I get it, and I can reference
pointers from pointers, and
do all kinds of address math and the whole
language opened up to me at that point.
So anecdotally, it's sort of like
we feel that way about closure.
When you're first learning the language
you may hear people talk about closure.
You may think that it has something to do
with functions and being passed around and
scope, but you're not really quite sure.
And you know that people say that when you
get Closure the whole language kind of
opens up, and your eyes are open to
this whole other side of the language.
And I do recall a time when I didn't
understand Closure fully, and
then, I got it, and
I had a different perspective.
All that is to say,
that if you are hoping for
today to feel like that
magical enlightenment moment.
I have to warn you that there's gonna
be a slight letdown, because it's gonna
feel a little anti climatic when I explain
to you what Closures actually are.
And that's on purpose not because I
want to dash your hopes or anything, but
because everything that I just spent
the last three hours teaching you
is the fundamental basis for
how closures work.
And now when I explain what they are,
you're going to be of
course I've already been using closures,
I didn't even realize it.
I didn't have a name for it.
It's going to feel a little bit
like an anticlimactic letdown.
It's not this, you know,
magical moment, it's gonna be more
like when Neo first sees the Matrix.
It's not a new thing,
the Matrix was always there,
he just didn't have a way to see it.
And now you're gonna see closure in
a way you couldn't see it before, okay?
So I'm gonna give you the what you need to
know definition for what is closure and
I'm going to explain it.
Now it turns out that Closure is
actually a mathematical concept.
It comes from lambda calculus.
And I don't know what the F
lambda calculus even is.
So I can't give you a mathematical
definition, I just know that it is because
I can read a Wikipedia page,
comes from lambda calculus.
I do know, sort of as a side note,
I worked with this guy
some time ago years back.
And this dude was hardcore,
like Mr. Computer Science.
I mean, he was brilliant, and knew about
the y combinators, and all this stuff.
And he had a tattoo on his arm of
the lambda form of the y combinator,
written out with the lambda symbols and
stuff.
He had a tattoo of the lambda.
I don't even know what it meant.
It was literally Greek to me.
I had no idea what that was.
So I can't give you that.
I can't give you an academic definition,
per se.
But what I am gonna give you
is the what you need to know,
the practical way to say this.
And this is my definition, so
when I ask you what Closure is,
I'm expecting you to give me this
definition back, hopefully it's helpful.
If, beyond this class you wanna
discard it, that's fine, but
here's the definition.
Closure is when a function
remembers its lexical scope,
even when that function is executing
outside of its lexical scope.
Let me say that again,
Closure is the capability for
a function to remember and
access its lexical scope.
Even when the function is executing well
outside of it's defined lexical scope.
We understand that a function
has access to his lexical scope.
We've already seen that before.
When I had bar inside of foo,
bar could reference a variable in bar, but
it could also reference a variable
in foo through lexical scope lookup.
We already understand how
that mechanism works.
The capability for bar to continue
to reference that same scope lookup,
even when bar is executing outside of it,
is what makes closure.
So let me illustrate.
Here, I have a function,
outer function foo.
He's got a variable
called bar on line two.
On line four, I declare an inner function.
Remember my inner nested scope bubbles.
So I get a scope bubble around baz.
And that's inside of
the scope bubble around foo.
We know that baz can reference bar.
We know that baz can say bar and
it will first check for
a local variable on like four and
a half, it doesn't find it there.
So it goes up and it finds it in
the enclosing scope on line two.
Everybody remember that right?
So we understand that, and
that mechanism is most appropriately
described as life cycle scope.
But because Java script has first class
functions, functions can be passed around,
and they can be executing in
entirely different environments.
So, if we take the reference
to the functions baz, and
we pass it outside of the function foo,
In other words, down here on line eight,
I take a reference to baz and
I pass it outside.
I pass it as a reference
to another function.
On line 12,
when I execute that baz function,
he is still able to access the lexical
scope in which he was defined,
even though he's executing
outside of that lexical scope.
Does everybody see on line 12 why
he's executing outside of the bubble.
There's a bubble around lines one
through nine, he's executing on line 12.
But it still works, he's still able to
access that variable, and that is closure.
The fact that lexical scope
stayed attached to that function
no matter where he got transported.
And it's not just a copy
of the lexical scope.
It's a reference to
the existing lexical scope.
It's kept alive, and that's closure.
And you're gonna say, aw,
I've been doing this for
years and
I didn't know that what that meant.
Yeah, that's your let-down moment, right.
Let's see a couple more examples
of more common examples.